README.md, before:

# graph-apcupsd
Bash shell script for logging/graphing apcupsd on Debian jessie.

 * Logs parameters given by 'apaccess status' to a rrdtool-database
 * Generates multiple graphs with thumbnails
 * Generates a simple dynamic html/js thumbnail gallery for the graphs

![graph-apcupsd](http://i.imgur.com/Il1auzU.png "graph-apcupsd v1.1 Graph")
![graph-apcupsd](http://i.imgur.com/vy80B9u.png "graph-apcupsd v1.0 Web UI")
### Install ###
```
sudo apt-get install rrdtool apcupsd apcupsd-cgi imagemagick git
sudo git clone "git@github.com:fld/graph-apcupsd.git" /etc/apcupsd/
```
### Creating rrdtool database ###
Create a database for logging: _line voltage_, _load percentage_, _output voltage_, _internal temperature_, _battery voltage_ and number of _transfer events_ via _'apcaccess status'_.

I choose to go with a sampling frequency of _60 seconds_, because that is how often _'apcaccess status'_ updates it's values. The RRA row count of _'5256000'_ is enough for _10-years_ worth of data.
```
sudo rrdtool create /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.rrd \
--step '60' \
'DS:LINEV:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:LOADPCT:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:OUTPUTV:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:ITEMP:GAUGE:120:0:128' \
'DS:BATTV:GAUGE:120:0:50' \
'DS:NUMXFERS:DERIVE:120:0:U' \
'DS:TONBATT:GAUGE:120:0:U' \
'RRA:LAST:0.5:1:5256000'
```

### Cron job ###
$ sudo crontab -e

Add:
```
*/1 * * * * /etc/apcupsd/cron-apcupsd.sh
*/1 * * * * /etc/apcupsd/graph-apcupsd.sh
```
alternatively it could be placed at: _/etc/cron.d/graph-apcupsd_

### Apache configuration ###
The default Apache configuration for _'apcupsd-cgi'_ needs to be tweaked to allow images and html content:
```
<FilesMatch \.png$>SetHandler image/png </FilesMatch>
<FilesMatch \.html$>SetHandler .html</FilesMatch>
```

For example, on Debian jessie:

_/etc/apache2/conf-enabled/serve-cgi-bin.conf_:
```
<IfModule mod_alias.c>
    <IfModule mod_cgi.c>
        Define ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN
    </IfModule>

    <IfModule mod_cgid.c>
        Define ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN
    </IfModule>

    <IfDefine ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN>
        ScriptAlias /cgi-bin/ /usr/lib/cgi-bin/
        <Directory "/usr/lib/cgi-bin">
            AllowOverride None
            Options +ExecCGI -MultiViews +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch
            Require all granted
            <FilesMatch \.png$>
                SetHandler image/png
            </FilesMatch>
            <FilesMatch \.html$>
                SetHandler .html
            </FilesMatch>
        </Directory>
    </IfDefine>
</IfModule>
```

### Viewing statistics ###
By default, the script generates __index.html__ and __\<time_period\>[s].png__ files to: __/usr/lib/cgi-bin/apcupsd/__ which (by default) is accessible at: <http://localhost/cgi-bin/apcupsd/>

Commit message:

Check if ITEMP and OUTPUTV fields exist in rrd when generating graphs.
Not all UPSes have these readings, this change allows them to
be omitted when creating the rrd file.

README.md, after:

# graph-apcupsd
Bash shell script for logging/graphing apcupsd on Debian jessie.

 * Logs parameters given by 'apaccess status' to a rrdtool-database
 * Generates multiple graphs with thumbnails
 * Generates a simple dynamic html/js thumbnail gallery for the graphs

![graph-apcupsd](http://i.imgur.com/Il1auzU.png "graph-apcupsd v1.1 Graph")
![graph-apcupsd](http://i.imgur.com/vy80B9u.png "graph-apcupsd v1.0 Web UI")
### Install ###
```
sudo apt-get install rrdtool apcupsd apcupsd-cgi imagemagick git
sudo git clone "git@github.com:fld/graph-apcupsd.git" /etc/apcupsd/
```
### Creating rrdtool database ###
Create a database for logging: _line voltage_, _load percentage_, _output voltage_, _internal temperature_, _battery voltage_ and number of _transfer events_ via _'apcaccess status'_.

I choose to go with a sampling frequency of _60 seconds_, because that is how often _'apcaccess status'_ updates it's values. The RRA row count of _'5256000'_ is enough for _10-years_ worth of data.
```
sudo rrdtool create /etc/apcupsd/apcupsd.rrd \
--step '60' \
'DS:LINEV:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:LOADPCT:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:OUTPUTV:GAUGE:120:0:300' \
'DS:ITEMP:GAUGE:120:0:128' \
'DS:BATTV:GAUGE:120:0:50' \
'DS:NUMXFERS:DERIVE:120:0:U' \
'DS:TONBATT:GAUGE:120:0:U' \
'RRA:LAST:0.5:1:5256000'
```

NOTE: The "OUTPUTV" and/or "ITEMP" values may be omitted if your UPS does not support them.

### Cron job ###
$ sudo crontab -e

Add:
```
*/1 * * * * /etc/apcupsd/cron-apcupsd.sh
*/1 * * * * /etc/apcupsd/graph-apcupsd.sh
```
alternatively it could be placed at: _/etc/cron.d/graph-apcupsd_

### Apache configuration ###
The default Apache configuration for _'apcupsd-cgi'_ needs to be tweaked to allow images and html content:
```
<FilesMatch \.png$>SetHandler image/png </FilesMatch>
<FilesMatch \.html$>SetHandler .html</FilesMatch>
```

For example, on Debian jessie:

_/etc/apache2/conf-enabled/serve-cgi-bin.conf_:
```
<IfModule mod_alias.c>
    <IfModule mod_cgi.c>
        Define ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN
    </IfModule>

    <IfModule mod_cgid.c>
        Define ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN
    </IfModule>

    <IfDefine ENABLE_USR_LIB_CGI_BIN>
        ScriptAlias /cgi-bin/ /usr/lib/cgi-bin/
        <Directory "/usr/lib/cgi-bin">
            AllowOverride None
            Options +ExecCGI -MultiViews +SymLinksIfOwnerMatch
            Require all granted
            <FilesMatch \.png$>
                SetHandler image/png
            </FilesMatch>
            <FilesMatch \.html$>
                SetHandler .html
            </FilesMatch>
        </Directory>
    </IfDefine>
</IfModule>
```

### Viewing statistics ###
By default, the script generates __index.html__ and __\<time_period\>[s].png__ files to: __/usr/lib/cgi-bin/apcupsd/__ which (by default) is accessible at: <http://localhost/cgi-bin/apcupsd/>
